Deep learning algorithms have
a huge hunger for training data.
They just often work best
when you can find enough
label training data to put
into the training set.
This has resulted in many teams sometimes
taking whatever data you can find and
just shoving it into the training set
just to get it more training data.
Even if some of this data, or
even maybe a lot of this data,
doesn't come from the same distribution
as your dev and test data.
So in a deep learning era, more and
more teams are now training on data
that comes from a different distribution
than your dev and test sets.
And there's some subtleties and
some best practices for
dealing with when you're training and
test distributions differ from each other.
Let's take a look.
Let's say that you're building
a mobile app where users will upload
pictures taken from their cell phones, and
you want to recognize whether the pictures
that your users upload from
the mobile app is a cat or not.
So you can now get two sources of data.
One which is the distribution of data you
really care about, this data from a mobile
app like that on the right, which
tends to be less professionally shot,
less well framed, maybe even blurrier
because it's shot by amateur users.
The other source of data you can get is
you can crawl the web and just download
a lot of, for the sake of this example,
let's say you can download a lot of very
professionally framed, high resolution,
professionally taken images of cats.
And let's say you don't have a lot
of users yet for your mobile app.
So maybe you've gotten 10,000 pictures
uploaded from the mobile app.
But by crawling the web you can download
huge numbers of cat pictures, and
maybe you have 200,000 pictures of
cats downloaded off the Internet.
So what you really care about
is that your final system does
well on the mobile app
distribution of images, right?
Because in the end, your users will
be uploading pictures like those on
the right and you need your
classifier to do well on that.
But you now have a bit of a dilemma
because you have a relatively small
dataset, just 10,000 examples
drawn from that distribution.
And you have a much bigger dataset that's
drawn from a different distribution.
There's a different appearance of
image than the one you actually want.
So you don't want to use just those
10,000 images because it ends up
giving you a relatively
small training set.
And using those 200,000
images seems helpful, but
the dilemma is this 200,000 images isn't
from exactly the distribution you want.
So what can you do?
Well, here's one option.
One thing you can do is put both
of these data sets together so
you now have 210,000 images.
And you can then take
the 210,000 images and
randomly shuffle them into a train,
dev, and test set.
And let's say for the sake of argument
that you've decided that your dev and
test sets will be 2,500 examples each.
So your training set
will be 205,000 examples.
Now so set up your data this way has
some advantages but also disadvantages.
The advantage is that now you're training,
dev and test sets will all come
from the same distribution, so
that makes it easier to manage.
But the disadvantage, and
this is a huge disadvantage,
is that if you look at your dev set,
of these 2,500 examples,
a lot of it will come from the web page
distribution of images, rather than
what you actually care about, which is
the mobile app distribution of images.
So it turns out that of your
total amount of data, 200,000, so
I'll just abbreviate that 200k,
out of 210,000,
we'll write that as 210k,
that comes from web pages.
So all of these 2,500
examples on expectation,
I think 2,381 of them
will come from web pages.
This is on expectation, the exact
number will vary around depending on
how the random shuttle operation went.
But on average, only 119 will
come from mobile app uploads.
So remember that setting up your dev
set is telling your team where to aim
the target.
And the way you're aiming your target,
you're saying spend most
of the time optimizing for
the web page distribution of images,
which is really not what you want.
So I would recommend against option one,
because this is setting up the dev
set to tell your team to optimize for
a different distribution of data
than what you actually care about.
So instead of doing this,
I would recommend that you instead take
another option, which is the following.
The training set,
let's say it's still 205,000 images,
I would have the training set have
all 200,000 images from the web.
And then you can, if you want,
add in 5,000 images from the mobile app.
And then for your dev and test sets,
I guess my data sets size
aren't drawn to scale.
Your dev and
test sets would be all mobile app images.
So the training set will include
200,000 images from the web and
5,000 from the mobile app.
The dev set will be 2,500
images from the mobile app, and
the test set will be 2,500
images also from the mobile app.
The advantage of this way of splitting
up your data into train, dev, and test,
is that you're now aiming
the target where you want it to be.
You're telling your team, my dev set has
data uploaded from the mobile app and
that's the distribution of
images you really care about, so
let's try to build a machine learning
system that does really well on
the mobile app distribution of images.
The disadvantage, of course,
is that now your training
distribution is different from your
dev and test set distributions.
But it turns out that this split
of your data into train, dev and
test will get you better
performance over the long term.
And we'll discuss later some specific
techniques for dealing with your
training sets coming from different
distribution than your dev and test sets.
Let's look at another example.
Let's say you're building
a brand new product,
a speech activated rearview mirror for
a car.
So this is a real product in China.
It's making its way into other countries
but you can build a rearview mirror to
replace this little thing there, so that
you can now talk to the rearview mirror
and basically say, dear rearview mirror,
please help me find
navigational directions to the nearest
gas station and it'll deal with it.
So this is actually a real product, and
let's say you're trying to build this for
your own country.
So how can you get data to train
up a speech recognition system for
this product?
Well, maybe you've worked on speech
recognition for a long time so
you have a lot of data from other
speech recognition applications,
just not from a speech
activated rearview mirror.
Here's how you could split up your
training and your dev and test sets.
So for your training, you can take
all the speech data you have that
you've accumulated from working
on other speech problems, such as
data you purchased over the years from
various speech recognition data vendors.
And today you can actually buy
data from vendors of x, y pairs,
where x is an audio clip and
y is a transcript.
Or maybe you've worked on smart speakers,
smart voice activated speakers, so
you have some data from that.
Maybe you've worked on voice
activated keyboards and so on.
And for the sake of argument,
maybe you have 500,000
utterences from all of these sources.
And for your dev and test set, maybe
you have a much smaller data set that
actually came from a speech
activated rearview mirror.
Because users are asking for
navigational queries or
trying to find directions
to various places.
This data set will maybe have a lot
more street addresses, right?
Please help me navigate to
this street address, or
please help me navigate
to this gas station.
So this distribution of data will be
very different than these on the left.
But this is really the data you care
about, because this is what you need your
product to do well on, so this is what
you set your dev and test set to be.
So what you do in this example
is set your training set to be
the 500,000 utterances on the left, and
then your dev and
test sets which I'll abbreviate D and T,
these could be maybe
10,000 utterances each.
That's drawn from actual the speech
activated rearview mirror.
Or alternatively, if you think you don't
need to put all 20,000 examples from
your speech activated rearview
mirror into the dev and
test sets, maybe you can take half of
that and put that in the training set.
So then the training set
could be 510,000 utterances,
including all 500 from there and
10,000 from the rearview mirror.
And then the dev and test sets could
maybe be 5,000 utterances each.
So of the 20,000 utterances,
maybe 10k goes into the training set and
5k into the dev set and
5,000 into the test set.
So this would be another reasonable
way of splitting your data into train,
dev, and test.
And this gives you a much bigger training
set, over 500,000 utterances, than if you
were to only use speech activated rearview
mirror data for your training set.
So in this video, you've seen a couple
examples of when allowing your training
set data to come from a different
distribution than your dev and
test set allows you to have
much more training data.
And in these examples, it will cause your
learning algorithm to perform better.
Now one question you might ask is, should
you always use all the data you have?
The answer is subtle,
it is not always yes.
Let's look at a counter-example
in the next video.